# li₃ docs

Once installed in your existing application, however, it generates documentation from your
app's docblocks in real-time, which is all accessible from http://yourapp.tld/docs/. Not
only that, but it will generate documentation for your plugins, too. Including itself;
so it is self-replicating in a way. In this vein, it becomes part of a series of plugins
required in order to obtain various documentation volumes of interest.

Such as:

 * https://github.com/UnionOfRAD/manual
 * https://github.com/UnionOfRAD/lithium

So the documentation plugin is a tool for creating automatically browse-able documentation
of your application's codebase. In addition to simple descriptions and tables of contents,

_Note_: `li3_docs` is a **plugin**, NOT an app. Furthermore, by itself it is a VIEWER ONLY and
contains no actual documentation other than its own.

### Installation

1. To install run `composer require unionofrad/li3_docs`.
2. The plugin needs a configured `default` connection.
3. 2 tables need to be created using `schema.sql` file.

### Documentation structure

For generating documentation, li3_docs relies on PHP documentation blocks, or _docblocks_.
These docblocks can appear above classes, methods, properties, etc., and contain three
things: a short description, a longer description (often including usage examples), and
docblock _tags_, which are denoted by an `@` symbol, followed by a keyword. A typical
docblock might look something like this:

```
	/**
	 * Contains an instance of the `Request` object with all the details of the HTTP request that
	 * was dispatched to the controller object. Any parameters captured in routing, such as
	 * controller or action name are accessible as properties of this object, i.e.
	 * `$this->request->controller` or `$this->request->action`.
	 *
	 * @see lithium\action\Request
	 * @var object
	 */
	public $request = null;
```

This docblock documents a class property, and contains a short description and two
docblock tags. The tags to be used in a docblock vary by what is being documented. A
property docblock should contain a `@var` tag that describes what type of value the
property holds, while methods have a series of `@param` tags and a `@return` tag.

There are also general tags which can be added to any docblock. These include the `@see`
tag, which allows you to link to another class, method or property, and the `@link` tag,
which allows you to link to an arbitrary URL.

### Markdown syntax

Docblock descriptions are written in Markdown format, with a few conventions. Namely, any
code references or identifiers should be enclosed in backticks. This includes namespaces,
classes, variable names, and keywords like `true`, `false` and `null`. Extended code
examples should be written enclosed in three sets of backticks, i.e.: ``&zwj;`` // Code
goes here ```.

### Indexing

The plugin supports both manual-like repositories holding markdown formatted files,
as well as source-code repositories, which may additionally have so called _namespace
documents_ (a `README.md` files nested inside directories).

The following registers 2 indexes, one for our manual, one for the frameowork API.

```
use li3_docs\models\Indexes;

Indexes::register([
	'type' => 'book',
	'title' => 'li₃: The Definitive Guide',
	'name' => 'manual',
	'version' => '1.x',
	'path' => '/tmp/manual_1',
]);

Indexes::register([
	'type' => 'api',
	'title' => 'Framework API',
	'name' => 'lithium',
	'version' => '1.0.x',
	'path' => '/tmp/lithium_10',
	'namespace' => 'lithium'
]);
```

Once registered the index can be regenerated by running the following command.

```
li3 docs index
```

### Searching

The plugin supports symbol-based search i.e. via ElasticSearch. Search for classes,
methods and properties. To get all symbols available in all libraries registered with li3
execute the following method.

```
use li3_docs\models\Symbols;

foreach (Symbols::harvest($index) as $symbol) {
	ElasticSearch::addToIndex($symbol->data());
}

```
